Add introduction section to documentation (#83)
davenverse/shellfish: docs/introduction/index.md

# First steps

## Which API should I use?

In shellfish, you have two different ways of doing things:

> - First, if you prefer a more concise, fluent syntax, use the extension methods (e.g. `path.read()`) by importing the `shellfish.syntax.all.*` package.

Reviewer: Is the import correct?

```suggestion
- First, if you prefer a more concise syntax, use the extension methods (e.g. `path.read()`) by importing the `shellfish.syntax.all.*` package.
```

Author: Not correct, but I made It when I was thinking about the Processes API as well, I'll change it to `syntax.path.*` :)

- If you prefer calling static methods, use direct method calls on the `FilesOs` object (e.g., `FilesOs.read(path)`). You can also import all the functions inside the `shellfish.FilesOs` package if you don't want to call the `FilesOs` object every time (e.g., `read(path)`). 

>     For this documentation we'll call the methods on the `FilesOs` objects in the static variant to difference them from the extension methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this documentation we'll call the methods on the `FilesOs` objects in the static variant to differentiate them from the extension ones.
```

@:select(api-style)

@:choice(syntax)

```scala 3
import shellfish.syntax.all.*

val path = Path("data/test.txt")

for
  file <- path.read
  _    <- path.append("I'll place this here.")
yield ()
```

@:choice(static)

```scala 3
import shellfish.FilesOs

val path = Path("data/test.txt")

for
  file <- FilesOs.read(path)
  _    <- FilesOs.append(path, "I'll place this here.")
yield ()
```

@:@

> Which one you should use really depends on your preferences and choices; if you like the method style of calling functions directly to the object, stick to the extension methods syntax, if you rather prefer a more Haskell-like style, stick to the static object calls!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Which one you should use really depends on your preferences and choices; if you like the method style of calling functions directly on the objects, stick to the extension methods syntax, if you rather prefer a more Haskell-like style, stick to the static object calls!
```

## Imports

If you just want to start scripting right away, importing `shellfish.*` will do the trick; it imports all the extension methods and functionality you need, such as types and functions, to start working right away.

But if you want more concise functionality, the `shellfish.syntax.path.*` and `shellfish.syntax.process.*` will only import the extension methods.

For the static methods, the `shellfish.FilesOs` and `shellfish.ProcessesOs` imports will provide the functions to work with files and processes, if that is your preferred style.

> Finally, `shellfish.domain.*` will import all the types needed to work with the library!

Reviewer: I didn't see all this imports coming :P
In any case I'll say that we can completely skip this section, and let the users do everything with a single `shellfish.*` import

## What is this `IO` thing?

You may be wondering at this point, what is this `IO` thing that appears at the end of the functions? Well, that's the [IO monad](https://typelevel.org/cats-effect/docs/2.x/datatypes/io) of Cats Effect; the concept is much more extensive than we can explain on this page, but basically it is a type that allows us to suspend side effects so that they do not run instantly:

```scala mdoc
import cats.effect.IO

/* Will print to de console! */
val printingHello = println("Hello newbies!")

/* Will not do anything (yet) */
val suspendingHello = IO(println("Hello newbies!"))
```

> To actually run the computation, you have two options, the first one (and not recommended) is to call the `unsafeRunSync()` function at the very end of the program:

Reviewer 2: If this is doc is for beginners, I'd recommend replacing `computation` with `program`.
Or a small explanation what a `computation` is.

```scala mdoc
import cats.effect.unsafe.implicits.global // Imports the runtime that executes the IO monad

suspendingHello.unsafeRunSync()
```

> But this is not the usual way; the common way is to pass it to the `run` function (similar to the main method in scala, but for `IO`!). To that, you have to extend the object with `IOApp`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But this is not the usual way: the usual way is to assing it to the `run` function (similar to the main method but for `IO`). To that, you have to extend your application's main object with `IOApp`:
```

Reviewer 2: passing* :P

```scala mdoc:silent
import cats.effect.IOApp

object Main extends IOApp.Simple:

  def run: IO[Unit] = suspendingHello

end Main
```

> On either way, the `IO` will be executed and all the computation will be evaluated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Either way, the `IO` will be executed and all the computation will be evaluated.
```

But why's that useful? Well, one of the advantages is referential transparency, and that basically means that we can replace the code wherever it is referenced and expect the same results every time:

```scala mdoc
val num = 2

(num + num) == (2 + 2)
```

It may seem trivial, but that's not always the case:

```scala mdoc
import scala.util.Random

val rndNum = Random.nextInt(10)

val result1 = rndNum + rndNum
```

If referential transparency exists in your program, replacing `Random.nextInt(10)` in `rndNum` would yield the same result, which is not the case:

```scala mdoc
val result2 = Random.nextInt(10) + Random.nextInt(10)

result1 == result2
```

With `IO`, we can solve this by delaying the number generation:

```scala mdoc:compile-only
import cats.syntax.all.*

val rndNumIO = IO(Random.nextInt(10))

val result1IO = (rndNumIO, rndNumIO).mapN(_ + _)

val result2IO = (IO(Random.nextInt(10)), IO(Random.nextInt(10))).mapN(_ + _)

> ```

Reviewer: Can I ask you to rework this and not use `Random` as an example? You're correctly claiming that `result1 != result2` in the first example, but you are not claiming that the net result of running the second is ``result1 == result2`, because you've picked `Random` that is random and as such would be unpredicable.

Also, don't use `mapN` it will be confusing for newcomers, use a for comprehension.

Use maybe `val salute = println("Hello")` to prove that `salute + salute` won't fire two times.

Author: Yup! Let me see what can I do :D

> For more examples of why this is important, check out [this blog post](https://blog.rockthejvm.com/referential-transparency/) about referential transparency!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here's a [good explanation](https://blog.rockthejvm.com/referential-transparency/) about the benefits of referential transparency.
```

> Another advantage is control over the code. Because "wrapping" computations inside the `IO` monad converts programs into descriptions of programs instead of statements, you automatically gain control over your program as to when and when not to execute those statements.

Reviewer: That's terse, can you rephrase it?

> For those and many more reasons, we opted to make this library pure by implementing `IO` on the library!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

def result2: String = { println("Hellow, "); "Hellow, " } + { println("meow"); "meow" }

result1
result2
```

As you can see, only the `result1` printed twice, even though we replaced the exact same definitions with the implementations. With `IO`, we can solve this by delaying the print to the stout:

```scala mdoc
val saluteIO = IO:
  println("Hellow, ")
  "Hellow, " 

val meowIO = IO:
  println("meow.")
  "meow."

def result1IO: IO[String] = 
  for
    hello <- saluteIO
    meow  <- meowIO
  yield hello + meow

def result2IO: IO[String] =
  for
    hello <- IO { println("Hellow, "); "Hellow, " }
    meow  <- IO { println("meow"); "meow  " }
  yield hello + meow

result1IO.unsafeRunSync()
result2IO.unsafeRunSync()

```
Now both results are the same, an behave exactly the same!

Here's a [good explanation](https://blog.rockthejvm.com/referential-transparency/) about the benefits of referential transparency.  

Another benefit is gaining explicit control over code execution. By encapsulating computations within the `IO` monad, your programs become blueprints rather than direct statements. This gives you the ability to decide precisely when to execute those statements.

> ## Weird `>>` and `>>=` methods, what are these?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Weird `>>` and `>>=` operators, what are those?
```

> While reading the documentation of this library, you may come across some strange like `>>`, don't worry, this is convenience syntax sugar for some fairly common methods!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While reading the documentation of this library, you may come across some strange operator like `>>`. This is convenient syntax sugar for some fairly common methods!
```

You can import them using the syntax package in cats, like this:

```scala mdoc
import cats.syntax.all.*
```

For instance, you may seen something like this:

```scala mdoc:compile-only
IO("The result is: 42") >>= IO.println
```

> That is just an alias for `flatMap`, it's like writing `IO("The result is: 42").flatMap(IO.println(_))`, but without the added boilerplate. This use is more common in languages like Haskell, but we'll use it in the documentation to simplify things a bit!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That is just an alias for `flatMap`, so it's like writing `IO("The result is: 42").flatMap(IO.println(_))`, but without the added boilerplate. This use is more common in languages like Haskell, but we'll use it in the documentation to simplify things a bit!
```
